Authentication guide (#1225)
streamlit/docs: content/develop/concepts/connections/authentication.md

---

# User authentication and information

> The ability to personalize your app for your users is a great way to make your app more engaging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personalizing your app for your users is a great way to make your app more engaging.
```
"The ability" isn't actually the way to make your app more engaging, unless you mean that your users can personalize the app to make it more engaging? 
"Being able to personalize your app makes it more engaging for your users."

> User authentication and personalization unlocks a plethora of use cases for developers, some of which could include: controls for admins, a personalized stock ticker, a chatbot app with a saved history between sessions, and much more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User authentication and personalization unlocks a plethora of use cases for developers, including controls for admins, a personalized stock ticker, and a chatbot app with a saved history between sessions.
```
When you indicate before a list that it isn't exhaustive ("including"), don't end the list with a phrase that has the same meaning ("and more").

> You should have a basic understanding of [secrets management](/develop/concepts/connections/secrets-management) before reading this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Before reading this guide, you should have a basic understanding of [secrets management](/develop/concepts/connections/secrets-management).
```

## OpenID Connect

> Streamlit supports user authentication for any identity provider using OpenID Connect (OIDC). Although OIDC is built on OAuth 2.0, Streamlit doesn't support generic OAuth providers. Streamlit supports authentication, not authorization. OIDC connections return identifying information about a user so you know who they are (authentication). These connections don't return access tokens (authorization)&mdash;your app can't act on behalf of a user through your identity provider. If you need your app to act on behalf of your users in another system, you might consider using or creating a custom component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streamlit supports user authentication, but not authorization, for any identity provider using OpenID Connect (OIDC). Although OIDC is built on OAuth 2.0, Streamlit doesn't support generic OAuth providers. OIDC connections return identifying information about a user so you know who they are (authentication). These connections don't return access tokens (authorization): that is, your app can't act on behalf of a user through your identity provider. If you need your app to act on behalf of your users in another system, consider using or creating a custom component.
```

Some popular OIDC providers are:

- [Google Identity](https://developers.google.com/identity/openid-connect/openid-connect)
- [Microsoft Entra ID](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-pages/security/authentication/openid-settings)
- [Okta](https://help.okta.com/en-us/content/topics/apps/apps_app_integration_wizard_oidc.htm)
- [Auth0](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/auth0-overview/create-applications/regular-web-apps)

## `st.login()`, `st.experimental_user`, and `st.logout()`

There are three commands involved with user authentication:

> - [`st.login()`](/develop/api-reference/user/st.login) redirects the user to your identity provider. After they log in, Streamlit stores an identity cookie, then redirects them to the homepage of your app in a new session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`st.login()`](/develop/api-reference/user/st.login) redirects the user to your identity provider. After they log in, Streamlit stores an identity cookie and then redirects them to the homepage of your app in a new session.
```

- [`st.experimental_user`](/develop/api-reference/user/st.user) is a dict-like object for accessing user information. It has a persistent attribute, `.is_logged_in`, which you can check for the user's login status. When they are logged in, other attributes are available per your identity provider's configuration.
- [`st.logout()`](/develop/api-reference/user/st.logout) removes the identity cookie from the user's browser and redirects them to the homepage of your app in a new session.

## User cookies and logging out

> Streamlit checks for the identity cookie at the beginning of each new session. If a user logs into your app in one tab and then opens a new tab, they will automatically be logged into your app in the new tab. When you call `st.logout()` in a user session, Streamlit removes the identity cookie and starts a new session. This logs the user out from the current session. However, if they were logged into other sessions already, they will remain logged in within those sessions. The information in `st.experimental_user` is updated at the beginning of a session (which is why `st.login()` and `st.logout()` both start new sessions after saving or deletin).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streamlit checks for the identity cookie at the beginning of each new session. If a user logs in to your app in one tab and then opens a new tab, they will automatically be logged in to your app in the new tab. When you call `st.logout()` in a user session, Streamlit removes the identity cookie and starts a new session. This logs the user out from the current session. However, if they were logged in to other sessions already, they will remain logged in within those sessions. The information in `st.experimental_user` is updated at the beginning of a session (which is why `st.login()` and `st.logout()` both start new sessions after <something> is saved or deleted).
```
"Log in to" is three words. 
The phrase "after saving or deleting" modifies  `st.login()` and `st.logout()`, which I don't think are the subjects (actors) of those verbs. Who or what does the saving or deleting, and what is saved or deleted? I rewrote the phrase in passive voice to obscure the actor, but what is saved or deleted?

Author: `st.login()` and `st.logout()` are functions that perform a sequence of steps, one of which is saving/deleting cookies and another is starting a new session. So I think they can be called the actors here. We say "a Streamlit command displays <something>" or "a Streamlit command stops/starts <something>."

If a user closes your app without logging out, the identity cookie will expire after 30 days. This expiration time is not configurable and is not tied to any expiration time that may be returned in your user's identity token. If you need to prevent persistent authentication in your app, check the expiration information returned by the identity provider in `st.experimental_user` and manually call `st.logout()` when needed.

> Streamlit does not modify or delete any cookies saved directly by your identity provider. For example, if you use Google as your identity provider and a user signs in to your app with Google, they will remain logged into their Google account after they log out of your app with `st.logout()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streamlit does not modify or delete any cookies saved directly by your identity provider. For example, if you use Google as your identity provider and a user signs in to your app with Google, they will remain signed in to their Google account after they log out of your app with `st.logout()`.
```
Some inconsistency with "sign in" and "log in." I noticed that the commands listed previously use "log in," but if the UI says "sign in," as here, we also need to follow that.

## Setting up an identity provider

In order to use an identity provider, you must first configure your identity provider through an admin account. This typically involves setting up client or application within the identity provider's system. Follow the documentaion for your identity provider. As a general overview, an identity-provider client typically does the following:

- Manages the list of your users.
- Optional: Allows users to add themselves to your user list.
- Declares the set of attributes passed from each user account to the client (which is then passed to your Streamlit app).

> - Only allows authenctication requests to come from your Streamlit app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only allows authentication requests to come from your Streamlit app.
```

- Redirects users back to your Streamlit app after they authenticate.

To configure your app, you'll need the following:

> - Your app's URL. For example, use `http://localhost:8501` for most local development cases.
> - A redirect URL, which is your app's URL with the pathname `oauth2callback`. For example, `http://localhost:8501/oauth2callback` for most local development cases.
> - A cookie secret, which should be a strong, randomly generated string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your app's URL
   For example, use `http://localhost:8501` for most local development cases.
- A redirect URL, which is your app's URL with the pathname `oauth2callback` 
  For example, use `http://localhost:8501/oauth2callback` for most local development cases.
- A cookie secret, which should be a strong, randomly generated string
```
Don't use periods for list items that are just noun phrases, and indent the "for example" phrase on the line below the list item.

> After you use this information to configure your identity-provider client, you'll get the following from your identity provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you use this information to configure your identity-provider client, you'll receive the following information from your identity provider:
```

> - Client id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client ID
```
Cap "ID" when using it generically.

- Client secret
- Server metadata URL

> Examples for popular OIDC prvoider configurations are provided in the API reference for `st.login()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples for popular OIDC provider configurations are listed in the API reference for `st.login()`.
```
Avoiding "provider/provided"

## Configure your OIDC connection in Streamlit

After you've configured your identity-provider client, you'll need to configure your Streamlit app, too. `st.login()` uses your app's `secrets.toml` file to configure your connection, similar to how `st.connection()` works.

Whether you have one OIDC provider or many, you'll need to have an `[auth]` dictionary in `secrets.toml`. You must declare `redirect_uri` and `cookie_secret` in the `[auth]` dictionary. These two values are shared between all OIDC providers in your app.

> If you are only using one OIDC provider, you can put the remaining three properties in `[auth]` (`client_id`, `client_secret`, and `server_metadata_url`). However, if you are using multiple providers, they should each have a unique name so you can declare their unique values in their own dictionaries. For example, `[auth.connection_1]` and `[auth.connection_2]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are only using one OIDC provider, you can put the remaining three properties (`client_id`, `client_secret`, and `server_metadata_url`) in `[auth]`. However, if you are using multiple providers, they should each have a unique name, for example, `[auth.connection_1]` and `[auth.connection_2]`, so you can declare their unique values in their own dictionaries.
```

## A simple example

> If you use Google Identity as your identity provider, a basic configuration for local development will look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Google Identity as your identity provider, a basic configuration for local development will look like the following code:
```
For clarity, use a noun with the phrase "the following."

`.streamlit/secrets.toml`:

```toml
[auth]
redirect_uri = "http://localhost:8501/oauth2callback"
cookie_secret = "xxx"
client_id = "xxx"
client_secret = "xxx"
server_metadata_url = (
    "https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration"
)
```

Make sure the port in `redirect_uri` matches the port you are using. The `cookie_secret` should be a strong, randomly generated secret. Both the `redirect_uri` and `cookie_secret` should have been entered into your client configuration on Google Cloud. You must copy the `client_id` and `client_secret` from Google Cloud after you create your client. For some identity providers, `server_metadata_url` may be unique to your client. However, for Google Cloud, a single URL is shared for OIDC clients.

In your app, create a simple login flow:

```python
import streamlit as st

if not st.experimental_user.is_logged_in:
    if st.button("Log in with Google"):
        st.login()
    st.stop()

if st.button("Log out"):
    st.logout()
st.markdown(f"Welcome! {st.experimental_user.name}")
```

> By using `st.stop()`, your script run ends as soon as the login button is displayed. This lets you avoid nesting your entire page within a conditional block. Additionally, you can use callbacks to simplify the code further:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use `st.stop()`, your script run ends as soon as the login button is displayed. This lets you avoid nesting your entire page within a conditional block. Additionally, you can use callbacks to simplify the code further:
```

```python
import streamlit as st

if not st.experimental_user.is_logged_in:
    st.button("Log in with Google", on_click=st.login)
    st.stop()

st.button("Log out", on_click=st.logout)
st.markdown(f"Welcome! {st.experimental_user.name}")
```

## Using multiple OIDC providers

> If you use more than one OIDC provider, you'll need to declare a unique name for each. If you want to use Google Identity and Microsoft Entra ID as two providers for the same app, your configuration for local development will look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use more than one OIDC provider, you'll need to declare a unique name for each. If you want to use Google Identity and Microsoft Entra ID as two providers for the same app, your configuration for local development will look like the following code:
```
